#icon: SHELF/extract_object
#context: sop
#type: node

= PrimGroups Extract Tool qL =

*interface version 1*

"""Build separate objects for specified primitive groups of a SOP node."""

Given an input geometry with
primitive groups in it, this operator can extract these groups by either creating a new Geometry
or a new Object Merge SOP for each group.

Creation, update and deletion of these nodes are *not automatic*: they are performed _as the
user presses the appropriate button_.

NOTE:
    This operator behaves slightly differently than other SOPs (hence the "Tool" naming).
    It is more of a scene-management tool than a regular SOP.

    It is intended mostly for the purpose of helping geometry import/export between other
    packages. Examples:

    - A rigid body fracture simulation has to be exported, but the application at the other
      end requires a separate object for each fracture, and the only way it can be handled
      if these groups are present as OBJ nodes in Houdini.

    - Geometry received in an esoteric CAD format, which imports as one large polymesh with
      individual objects represented as primitive groups. For various purposes it is much
      more desirable to have these groups as separate OBJ nodes in Houdini.


WARNING:
    It is _not recommended_ to use this tool for any procedural (e.g. regular Houdini) work
    as the way it works oppose Houdini's procedural nature.


@Parameters
    Group Pattern:
        The groups the new objects should be built for.

    Display Filter:
        Various 'display' modes to have visual feedback for the specified group pattern.
        (The Group Pattern results are also displayed as guide geometry.)

    Output Path:
        Path where the new nodes should be created.
        - If this points to an Object network (or subnet), a Geometry obj node will be created for each primitive group. (The geometry will also contain an Object Merge node that fetches only the group primitives.)
        - If this points in to a Geometry obj node, only Object Merge nodes will be created for each primitive group.

    Nodes Prefix:
        Name prefix for the nodes to be created.


    Transform Type:
        The 'Transform' parameter settings for Object Merge nodes.

    Explicit SOP Path:
        SOP Path to be set on Object Merge nodes.
        (By default it's set to an expression that returns the input SOP of our PrimGroups Extract Tool SOP.)

        If disabled, an `opinputpath()` expression will be used, referring to this node
        (i.e. it will automatically use the input of this node).

    Relative Path:
        This flag indicates if a relative path should be set on the Object Merge nodes.

    "Build/Update Objects":
        Pressing this button will create the new Objects and/or SOPs.
        (Already existing nodes will also have their parameters updated, according to current node settings.)

    "Cleanup (Delete) Objects":
        This will delete all nodes created by this operator.



@relnotes Release Notes

    _interface version 1_ ---

    2013-02-18:
        Now uses an `opinputpath()` expression in created Object Merge SOP nodes.

    _older versions_ ---

    Version 0.1.0:
        Initial release.

