#icon: SOP/group
#context: sop
#type: node

= PrimGroups Extract Tool qL =

*Version 0.0.1*

"""Build separate objects for specified primitive groups of a SOP node."""



Given an input geometry with
primitive groups in it, this operator can extract these groups by either creating a new Geometry
or a new Object Merge SOP for each group.

Creation, update and deletion of these nodes are *not automatic*: they are performed _as the
user presses the appropriate button_.

In other words, this operator is more of a scene-management tool than a regular SOP.

@Note
    This operator behaves slightly differently than other SOPs (hence the "Tool" naming).


@Parameters

    Group Pattern:
        The groups the new objects should be built for.

    Display Filter:
        Various 'display' modes to have visual feedback for the specified group pattern.
        (The Group Pattern results are also displayed as guide geometry.)

    Output Path:
        Path where the new nodes should be created.
        - If this points to an Object network (or subnet), a Geometry obj node will be created for each primitive group. (The geometry will also contain an Object Merge node that fetches only the group primitives.)
        - If this points in to a Geometry obj node, only Object Merge nodes will be created for each primitive group.

    Nodes Prefix:
        Name prefix for the nodes to be created.


    Transform Type:
        The 'Transform' parameter settings for Object Merge nodes.

    Source SOP Path:
        SOP Path to be set on Object Merge nodes. By default it's the input SOP of our PrimGroups Extract Tool SOP.

    Relative Path:
        This flag indicates if a relative path should be set on the Object Merge nodes.


    "Build/Update Objects":
        Pressing this button will create the new Objects and/or SOPs.
        (Already existing nodes will also have their parameters updated, according to current node settings.)

    "Cleanup (Delete) Objects":
        This will delete all nodes created by this operator.


@Release_Notes

    Version 0.1.0:
        Initial release.