#icon: VOP/pcopen
#context: sop
#type: node

= Distribute qL =

*Version 0.1.4*

"""Distribute points in space so they will keep given distances between each other."""


This node considers each point to be a sphere with a given radius, and arranges them so
they wouldn't intersect.

The radius for each point is specified by the `pscale` per-point attribute.


@Parameters
    Point Group:
        Points to distribute.

    Calculate Radius:
        Calculates an uniform radius based on the number of points and the
        overall surface area of the geometry in the second input.

    Radius Factor:
        Multiplier on the calculated radius.

    Radius:
        The radius of the points if the 'pscale' attribute is not present.

    Iterations:
        Number of iterations. Higher values give more regular distributions but longer calculation times.

        TIP:
            Keep increasing this gradually until you reach the desired result.

            You can try to keep increasing the radius instead, which can also improve results and much faster
            (especially with many points).

    Max Neighbours:
        The maximum number of nearby points that influences the new position of a point during each iteration.

    Grow:
        Gradually increase point radii during distribution. This might help points to get to
        otherwise unreachable locations.

    Ray:
        Project points back to the geometry connected to the second input.

    Ray Every Nth:
        Only project every _n_-th iteration and the last one.

    Ray Intersection Normal:
        Have points inherit the geometry normals of the ray surface.

    Ray Group:
        Group of points to project.

@related
    - [Node:sop/scatter]


@Release_Notes Release Notes

    Version 0.1.4:
        Bug fix: normals were zeroed out even if shouldn't have been. Fixed.

    Version 0.1.3:
        Point Group added. Caculate Radius added. Ray Every Nth added.

    Version 0.1.2:
        Ray Goup parameter added. Linked back Ray Intersection Normal.

    Version 0.1.1:
        Exposed the Point Intersection Normal parameter of the Ray SOP. It's label is Ray Intersection Normal for
        clarity.

    Version 0.1.0:
        Initial release. While it's really not ready, it's usable.
