#icon: COP2/shape
#context: sop
#type: node

= Attrib Shape qL =

*Version 0.2.0*

"""Assigns attribute values defined by an object or SDF volume."""

@Parameters
    Point Group:
        Points that get affected.
    Shape:
        Type of the boundary shape. The "object" or "volume" should be connected to the second input.
    Signature:
        Signature of the attribute.
    Attribute:
        The name of the attribute where the new values get stored.
    Local Variable:
        Create a local variable mapping for the attribute. If the string field is left blank, the variable name will be
        the upper case version of the attribute name.
    Inner Value:
        Value inside the shape.
    Outer Value:
        Value outside the shape.
    Falloff Distance:
        Falloff distance measured from the surface.
        
        TIP:
            Multiply Falloff Distance with Scale value to get constant penumbra for varying size boundary object.

    Exponent:
        Exponent of the falloff.
    Invert:
        Switch inner and outer values.
    Mode:
        How the newly created values get composed to the existing values.
    Source Attribute:
        Name of the source attribute used in compositing operations.
    Transform:
        Standard transform parametres determines the size and position of the shape.
    Volume Resolution:
        Resolution of the generated volume.

        NOTE:
            For performance and quality reasons the transform is applied after the volume generation thus a scaling
            "inside" the operator won't increase the resolution of the volume.

    Laser Scan:
        Turn it off for objects with inner structures.

@Limitations
    When the input attribute is not present in the geometry only the 'Replace' mode works correctly. This is due to
    performance considerations, probably won't change in the future.

@Release_Notes
    Version 0.2.0:
        Almost complete overhaul of the inner workings. Now the operator uses SDF volumes instead of distance measures,
        which results in much more flexibility and probably slower cooking.

    Version 0.1.2:
        Fixed a bug which resulted an unneeded float attrib even when the signature was vector.

        Inner and outer value parameters are color+alpha now.

    Version 0.1.1:
        Added local variable support.

    Version 0.1.0:
        Initial release.