#icon: DOP/sopscalarfield
#context: sop
#type: node

= Point Topology qL =

*Version 0.0.2*

"""Performs various topology-related queries and stores the results in point attributes."""

@description
    
    The following queries are available:
    
    Coincident Point Count:
        Finds out how many points occupy the same spatial coordinate.
        (Can be useful to detect un-[Fused|Node:sop/fuse] points.)
        Optionally, multiple coincident points can be grouped.
    
    Neighbour Count:
        Determines the number of topological neighbours for each point
        (ie. connected with an edge).
        Optionally, points with small neighbour count (e.g. curve endpoints
        or "lonely" points) can be grouped.
    
    Point Index, Vertex Index:
        Stores point or vertex indices in an attribute. The vertex index
        is relative to the primitive the point belongs to.

NOTE:
    Most vertex and primitive related values are usualy ambiguous on polyhedras since a point can belong to more than one
    primitive.  These values make more sense on curves and meshes. Cusp every edge if you need useful vertex info on
    polyhedras.
    
@Parameters
    Count Coincident Points:
        Toggles coincident point counting.
    Search radius:
        Points with smaller distance from each other than this value counts as coincident.
    Max Points:
        Maximum number of points. Increase this value if there is a chance your geometry has more point on the same
        location than this value.
    Attribute:
        Attribute to store the calculated value.
    Variable:
        Local variable name.
    Group:
        Group name that is generated by a condition on the number of coincident points.
    Compare Mode:
        Mode of comparison.
    Number of Points:
        Comparison value.
    Count Neighbours:
        Count connected points.
    Point Index:
        Store the point index in an attribute.
    Vertex Index:
        Store the vertex index in an attribute.
    Vertex Idx [0..1]:
        Store the vertex index in an attribute mapped to a float value between 0 and 1.
    Vertices on Prim:
        Number of vertices on the primitive.
    Primitive Index:
        Number of primitive the given point belongs to.

@Release_Notes
    Version 0.0.2:
        Interfacelift. Help card completion.
    Version 0.0.1:
        Initial release.
