#icon: TOOLS/track
#context: obj
#type: node

= Camera Rig qL =

*Version 0.1.1*

"""Camera rig for cinematic camera motion creation."""

@Inputs
    Position Parent:
        Parent of the Position point.
    Look At Parent:
        Parent of the Look At point.
    Crane Head Parent:
        Parent of the Crane base.

NOTE:
    Use the parent inputs to achieve more complex motions, like switching between different Look At points or
    rotating the Position point around an arbitrary pivot point. Also if you want to move your rig as one unit, create
    a parent null above your 'position' and 'look at' inputs and move and/or rotate them together.

@Parameters
    Use Look At:
        Use the Look At point to calculate camera rotation.
    Use Crane:
        Use the Crane to calculate the Crane Head position.
    Position:
        Position of the camero or the crane base if crane is enabled.
    Look At:
        Position of the Look At point.
    Pan:
        Horizontal rotation of the camera axis.
    Tilt:
        Vertical rotation of the camera axis.
    Roll:
        Roll of the camera axis.
    Arm Turn:
        Rotation of the Crane Arm around its vertical axis.
    Arm Elevation:
        Elevation of the Crane Arm.
    Arm Length:
        Length of the Crane Arm.
    Crane Head:
        Position of the Crane Head.
    Up Vector:
        Up vector used by the look at calculation and the 'Pan' parameter.
        It is relative to the rotation of the Position Parent, to allow easy whole rig placement and rotation.
    Guides:
        Display flag of the different guide geometries.

TIP:
    For technical reasons several manipulators are handled by separate Guides on the rig. For example the Crane
    controls are separated into three different handles. Set *Persistent* on the handles to achieve a more confortable
    workflow if needed.

@Limitations
    Crane head rotation is not implemented. Crane head transform inheritance selectors not implemented.

@Release_Notes
    Version 0.1.1:
        Renamed to 'Camera Rig' from 'Cinema Rig'. Arm elevation parameter negated.

    Version 0.1.0:
        Complete overhaul. All the secondary motion stuff is dropped from the asset. Use the separate "Motion" tools for
        adding secondary motions. Pan, tilt and roll is included.

    Version 0.0.2:
        Squashed a bug which prevented the rig for working more than 10 seconds. :)

    Version 0.0.1:
        Early preview release, for testing and evaluation purposes only.